---
description: Questions and answers to various crypto topics.
metaLinks:
  alternates:
    - https://app.gitbook.com/s/KGu77aAU8HQJ5FTwSgOi/guides/faqs
---

# FAQs

## Overview

This FAQ section covers a variety of topics for navigating the crypto ecosystem. If you find there's a term you don't know, check this page out for an answer. Other guides within the Chorus One Knowledge Base will often link back here for a refresher on certain concepts.&#x20;

***

## Wallet Security :closed\_lock\_with\_key:

### What is a Seed Phrase / Mnemonic Phrase / 12-Word Phrase?

{% hint style="info" %}
While they may go by different names, they all refer to the same thing!

The terms seed phrase, mnemonic phrase, and recovery phrase are often used interchangeably because they serve the same purpose: **enabling wallet recovery.**&#x20;

While the term “12-word phrase” or “24-word phrase” specifically refers to the length of the seed phrase, the underlying function remains the same.
{% endhint %}

A **seed phrase**, also known as a mnemonic phrase, recovery phrase, or 12, 18, or 24-word phrase, is a set of words generated by your cryptocurrency wallet to serve as a master key to access your funds.&#x20;

* This phrase is a human-readable representation of the cryptographic private keys tied to your wallet.&#x20;
* Seed phrases are typically 12, 18, or 24 words long, derived from a predetermined list of [2,048 words under the BIP-39 standard](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039/english.txt).&#x20;
* They act as the root access (or "master key") for your wallet, allowing you to recover your funds on any compatible wallet if your original device is lost, stolen, or damaged.&#x20;
* Importantly, the order of the words in the seed phrase is critical; even a slight deviation renders the phrase invalid. The words will always be in lower case.

### Securing your Seed Phrase Safely

{% hint style="danger" %}
**Regardless of the terminology, keeping your seed phrase secure and private is essential.**&#x20;

Anyone with access to it can take full control of your funds.&#x20;

Storing it offline, in a secure location, is strongly recommended to prevent unauthorized access or theft.&#x20;

Having a backup copy in a geographically dispersed location is also advisable.
{% endhint %}

***





